Global refactor of themes section (#2129)
PrestaShop/docs: themes/getting-started/environment-setup.md

---
title: Environment setup
weight: 3
---

# Environment setup

You need a running PrestaShop 9 instance to preview and test your theme during development.

## Option 1: Docker (recommended)

Hummingbird includes Docker Compose configurations that spin up a full PrestaShop environment (application, database, phpMyAdmin) with your theme mounted automatically. These configurations require **PrestaShop 9.1+**.

Two images are available:

| Image | Startup | Use case |
|-------|---------|----------|
| **[PrestaShop](https://github.com/PrestaShop/docker)** (`prestashop/prestashop`) | ~2–5 min | Full installation wizard, closest to production |

> | **[Flashlight](https://github.com/PrestaShop/prestashop-flashlight)** (`prestashop/prestashop-flashlight`) | ~10 sec | Pre-installed dump, ideal for fast iteration and testing |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **[PrestaShop](https://hub.docker.com/r/prestashop/prestashop/)** (`prestashop/prestashop`) | ~2–5 min | Full installation wizard, closest to production |
| **[Flashlight](https://hub.docker.com/r/prestashop/prestashop-flashlight)** (`prestashop/prestashop-flashlight`) | ~10 sec | Pre-installed dump, ideal for fast iteration and testing |
```
I think it would be better to point into the docker hub to got easy link to docker tags

ADMIN_PASSWORD=prestashop
```

### Start the environment

```bash
# Standard PrestaShop
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose-prestashop.yml up -d

# Or Flashlight (faster startup)
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose-flashlight.yml up -d
```

| Service | URL |
|---------|-----|
| PrestaShop | `http://localhost:8887` |
| Back Office | `http://localhost:8887/admin-dev` |
| phpMyAdmin | `http://localhost:8889` |

### Stop the environment

Use the same compose file you started with:

```bash
# If you started with Standard PrestaShop
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose-prestashop.yml down -v

# If you started with Flashlight
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose-flashlight.yml down -v
```

See the [Hummingbird Docker setup](https://github.com/PrestaShop/hummingbird#-run-hummingbird-with-docker) for full details.

## Option 2: Local PHP stack

If you prefer a traditional setup (XAMPP, MAMP, Laragon, or native PHP), install PrestaShop manually. Check the [system requirements]({{< relref "/9/basics/installation/system-requirements" >}}) for the PHP, MySQL, and web server versions needed, then follow the [installation guide]({{< relref "/9/basics/installation" >}}).

> Once installed, copy your theme folder into the `/themes/` directory of your PrestaShop installation, or upload it as a `.zip` from the Back Office under _Design > Theme & Logo_.

Reviewer: I'm not sure about this part; for local development, we can indeed leave open the option of putting our file in the /themes folder, but unzipping it seems strange to me. What do you think?
